title
Derivation of the QUBO formulation for sparse estimation

1. introduction
 In recent years, annealing machine have been developed, and their use methods are considered in fields such as optimization problems and machine learning. 
 In the annealing machine, it is necessary to express the problem to be dealt with in QUBO(Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization) formulation and implement it as hardware. 
 However, since the general method of rewriting to the QUBO format is not known yet, it needs to be derived individually. 
 In this paper, we derive the QUBO formulation for the l1 norm (absolute value function) used in sparse estimation. 
 As a result of experiment, it was possible to predict that one variable could be reduced from the result of numerical experiment by applying the Legendre transformation and Wolf-duality theorem to l1norm. 
 By reviewing the formulation we were actually able to reduce one variable. 
 In addition, as a result of conducting numerical experiments using the derived l1norm, it was confirmed that a sparse solution could be obtained.

2. information
研究の目的について説明する. 
In recent yeaars, sepecial machines for annealing have benn developed such as D-Wave, digital annealer and CMOS annealing machine, and methods for use in various fields are being considered.
The annealing machine acceptes Ising model parameters as input, but there are many functions thathave been represented yet because systematic derivation of the Ising model has been shown.

In the previous researches, the robust q-loss function is derived in the QUBO form using the Legendre transform, and its performance is evaluated using the classification problem as an example.
Also, in the recently published papaer on the derivation of the ReLU function in the QUBO form, the derivation has made using the Wofle-duality theorem, so that the Legendre transformation alone is insufficient.

On the other hand, sparse estimation is used in the fields of image processing and machine learning, and it is an important research in reducing the number of data, selecting related data from high-dimensional and complex data and making it simple.

The purpose of this research is to derive an l1-norm, which is a regularization term of Lasso used in sparse estimation, in the QUBO form using the derivation method in [ReLUの論文番号].
Furthemore, we evaluate whether the derived result is correct using simulated anneaing, and compare the results of Lasso(coordinate descent) and Lasso(simulated anneailng) to evaluate the performance.
In the anneling results, we verify that the estimate converges to zero.

論文の構成について説明する.
 
3. Background 
Isingモデルについての説明とQUBOについての説明をする. 
In a quantum annealing machine, a physical model called the Ising model is implemented as hardware, which performs annealing at high speed and outputs an approximate optimal solution. 
The Ising model is represented as follows:
(イジングモデルの式)
whe
Since Ising model and QUBO are equivalent, we can converted from one formulation to the other.


simulated annealing: 
また, 実験で使用するアルゴリズムを書いて詳細に説明する. 
 
 Lasso:
 Lassoについての説明. 特に比較実験をするので座標降下方のアルゴリズムについての説明もする. 

 
4. previous research q-loss関数とReLUタイプ関数のQUBO形式の導出について説明する.
4.1 QUBO formulation for q-loss function
 QUBO formulation is equivalent to the two-body Ising model. 
 
4.2 QUBO formulation for ReLU-type function
 
5 QUBO formulation for l1-norm  導出

5.1 Derivation of l1-norm in QUBO formulation 

5.2 Review of formulation

6. Experimental Setup 実験設定　lassoの正則化項を4.2で導出した式で置き換える

7. Results

7.1 Results on Public Data Sets

8. Conclusion
